NodeJS :
1.Superfast and Highly Scalable
2.javascript Everywhere
3.Consistent and clean codebase
4.Huge Community Support
5.Large Ecosystem of Open Source Libs (NPM)

Features of Node.js :

1.Single-Threaded
2.Asynchronous
3.Event Driven
4.NPM
5.Highly Scalable
6.Performance(c++ and v8 Engine)

There is no window object in nodejs

let name = "Name";
console.log(global.name);//get as undefined
This is because modular system of Node JS

//Node Js kept its variables in file scope only
//In NodeJs every file is treated as a module.

//Child process is a node module used to create sub proccess within a script.
//you can perform different tasks with your script by just using some methods.


NPM => Node Package Manager
 
It is like a playstore.where we can have third party packages can use to build our applications .It is an opensource . we can make our own packages also .

We have to create package.json
npm init  -> To initialize application and create package.json file.

//Publishing own npm package :
npm init
create account  : npm adduser
username :
password :
email :
Login account : npm login

publish package  :npm publish



//Express JS :
It is a framework .it will be using with node .
Features of ExpressJs :
1.fast and Robust applications (Talking about time)
when we use node we have to do configure and with so many things only using with Node .Express is here to remove all configurations and to remove boilerplates  . to build scalable applications .
2.Middlewares :some piece of code  to interact with  client request and handles that request .Express allows to write middlewares.
3.Routing : To handle requests like (get,post,put)  ,to put data all these things will take care by expressJS

Aynchronous JS :
Synchronous means : One thing at a time.
Synchronous programming means it will use a single thread , so only one operation or program will run at a time .
Sync is blocking - It will send the server one request at a time and will wait for that request to be answered by the server .
Asynchronous is non blocking , which means it will send multiple requests to a server at a time. 
Async increases throughput because multiple operations can run at same time.

